I think many of us have somehow
romanticized life in medieval castles
you know with all the feasts beautiful
outfits lords and ladies the court
jester well admittedly I got this
impression from movies TV shows and
commercials but still so just imagine my
shock when I found out that medieval
life was as far from the glamorous
picture in my head as possible first of
all inside castles were nothing like
those magnificent and proud
constructions you see in travel
brochures dizzyingly narrow passageways
suffocatingly smoky fires gloomy and
dark rooms that's what would have
greeted you upon setting foot in a
castle in medieval times and that's just
the good part but brace yourself it's
just the beginning castles were ice cold
inside and it's no wonder really after
all people built them to protect
themselves from enemies not to live
their lives in comfort
that's why builders constructed massive
stone fortresses all over the place you
probably know that stone really doesn't
heat up even on a hot summer day
besides for better safety castle windows
were small and narrow and didn't let in
much Sun sum up these facts and you'll
get a huge stone box with freezing cold
dark rooms inside and well lords and
ladies as well as their families
probably had a fire warming up their
quarters servants had to coop up in the
deepest and coldest parts of the castle
as a result most of them were constantly
ill and were unable to shake off their
diseases and there was no privacy in
castles that's why if you can't stand
big crowds of people you wouldn't have
liked living there although castles
looked inaccessible from the outside
they were literally one large and mostly
open space inside well to be fair if you
were a lord or lady you had your own
chambers where you could sleep and eat
and dress and just you know be yourself
as for other less fortunate souls they
had to spend days and nights in the
company
of other people yep no shutting yourself
in your room and thinking about life
there was somebody around at all times
toilets were another common area where
you couldn't find solitude and since
I've started on this rather touchy
subject I should admit that it was the
most shocking thing for me to discover
first of all a medieval toilet was
actually just a long wooden bench with
numerous holes for numerous well I think
you get it no walls no partitions it
meant that at any time you could have a
neighbor or two engaged in the same
delicate business on top of that all the
waste simply fell down into a big old
cess pit and stayed there end of story
anyway which sounds terrifying for the
modern human was probably the norm back
then in medieval times they had very
different standards of privacy and
hygiene but all the waste that collected
in cesspits led to a problem that stunk
and I mean it castle smelled really
really bad see for yourself
most people didn't care about hygiene
and couldn't even afford to take a bath
every now and that a bathtub and fresh
water was something that only high
classes could afford plus nobody was
brave enough to clean the huge cesspits
under the toilets
that's why castle inhabitants had to get
used to the constant stench on top of
that a regular castle usually had more
than a hundred dwellers so it would only
be appealing for a people person not
that most of the inhabitants had any
choice so then why did so many people
live in castles ah that's the easy one
imagine how many servants were needed to
deal with all the household chores and a
huge castle besides someone had to take
care of the Lords family as a result
servants and their families lived in
overcrowded quarters and shared almost
everything they had unfortunately they
also had to share their dwellings with
extremely unpleasant neighbors I'm
talking about the rats that loved dark
cold and damp places so if you were a
castle inhabitant rats were your
constant companions
it may seem like people would have
gotten used to these pests and ignored
them for the most part but no those who
lived in medieval times were as afraid
and disgusted by rats as most modern
people are a medieval castle woke up its
sunrise since sunshine was pretty much
the only source of light in that time
and those who worked outside tried to
use it to the fullest
however most castle servants got up even
before the Sun rose so that they had
time to start kitchen fires and cook
breakfast so if you're a night owl you
would have suffered greatly in medieval
times unless you were of royal or noble
descent in that case your day would be
quite different
first of all lords and ladies could
sleep in if they want it if not they
would wake up at dawn here mass and have
white bread and wine for breakfast then
Oh Lord would have several business
meetings and a lady would entertain
herself with embroidery if there were no
guests in the castle lunch was served at
about 10:00 a.m. and included about a
half-dozen dishes after lunch it was
time for entertainment like hunting or
playing chess in the late afternoon the
Lords family and guests would have
dinner listen to stories of a traveling
minstrel and talk and as soon as the
Lord announced he was going to bed the
rest of the household went to sleep as
well but before retiring to bed the Lord
could decide to take a bath the thing is
that people in medieval times rarely
washed not because they detested bathing
but because it was an impressive feat
first of all it was hard to find clean
water secondly to take a bath you needed
a bathtub which wasn't easy to get
normally Castle inhabitants dragged a
big wooden bathtub from one room to
another to have a chance to wash in it
as you can tell it wasn't very sanitary
and didn't provide any privacy but even
so simple people were related if they
had a chance to clean themselves feasts
were numerous and frequent they took
place in big halls and everyone had to
sit according to their status
guess food options also dependent on how
important a person was for example the
Lord's family as well as VIP visitors
enjoyed gourmet dishes seasoned with
exquisite spices as for less significant
guests their places were further from
the head of the table and their dishes
were much simpler though still tasty and
filling but look the dinner is over and
the floor is covered with leftovers
grease from food in other trash oh my
those people seem to know nothing about
table manners but what they did know was
how to create the impression of
cleanliness they covered the floor with
herbs and reeds which later absorbed the
grease and liquids afterward servants
swept it all up and replace it with new
rushes by the way these herbs also
played the role of a natural air
freshener and made the stench inside the
castle a little bit more bearable
hey what thing would be the hardest for
you to deal with if you lived in a
medieval castle write about your choice
in the comment section below remember to
give this video a like share it with
your friends and hit the subscribe
button dilly dilly this way you'll
immediately get to the bright side of
life